 

 

 

 

Remediation of College Students: A Summary of Empirical 
Findings on Developmental Education 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—Commissioned Paper for the Higher Education Policy Institute at the 

Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prepared by: 

 

AMAURY NORA, PROFESSOR AND DIRECTOR 

NATIONAL CENTER FOR STUDENT SUCCESS 

COLLEGE OF EDUCATION 

UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON 

ANORA@UH.EDU 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

February, 2009 


Remediation of College Students: 
A Summary of Empirical Findings on Developmental Education 
Framework for Commissioned Paper to the Texas Higher Education Policy 
Institute 
The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of developmental studies in higher 
education with a focus on the empirical research that has been conducted on remedial students. 
The review was guided by theoretical perspectives and conceptual models that have been used 
and tested in various empirical investigations of developmental students at both two- and four-
year colleges. Five major areas were identified to provide the underlying design of the paper: 
Who participates in remediation? What do the findings say as to its effectiveness? What 
theoretical perspectives have guided the research? What developmental and non-developmental 
factors impact student outcomes? and What components are crucial in developmental education? 
The different bodies of literature on developmental education are not extremely extensive 
and there is still much to be researched. Unlike other literature reviews, this paper is not intended 
to provide a set of specific policy recommendations or an exhaustive list of practices and 
interventions. To develop such a list, it is first necessary to generate a research agenda on 
developmental education, define or redefine the notion of remediation, and to conceptualize 
appropriate theoretical models of student achievement, persistence and graduation that 
incorporate the different components underlying the processes in the remediation of college 
students. The review does provide for one recommendation: the need for theoretically-driven, 
culturally-sensitive databases that can more accurately guide program evaluation and inform 
interventions and institutional reform for better minority and non-minority student success in 
higher education. 


Table of Contents 
Cover page…………………………………………………………………………. 1 
Framework for Commissioned Paper……………………………………………… 2 
Table of Contents…………………………………………………………………. 3 
Motivation of the Review ………………………………………………………… 4 
Large Numbers of Students Not Prepared and in 
Developmental Education .....................................................…………….. 5 
Preparation, Participation, and Persistence ………………………………... 7 
Problems with Placement Tests …………………………………………… 13 
Lack of a Consensus on Effective Solutions ……………………………… 17 
Key Components for Developmental Education …………………………. 20 
Technology and Developmental Education ………………………………. 24 
Discussion of Methods …………………………………………………………… 26 
A Case for Non-Experimental Studies ………………………………….. 30 
Results from a Study ……………………………………………………… 31 
Emerging Theoretical Basis for Effective Developmental Education …………….. 32 
Student Integration/Engagement Models ………………………………….. 33 
Human Capital ……………………………………………………………… 34 
Transformation of Curriculum ……………………………………..………. 34 
A Final Thought ……………………………………………………………………. 35 
References……………………………………………………………………………. 37 



 DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION: 
AN OVERVIEW 
In recent years, access to higher education has taken on a sense of urgency, specifically 
for the socioeconomically disadvantaged and for minorities who come from academically 
depressed schools or school districts (Kreysa, 2006-2007; Rendon, Novack, & Dowell, 2005). 
While local, state and national initiatives have been created to tackle this issue, one reality that 
campuses must address is the fact that many of these students will come to college academically 
underprepared. The hope for these student populations is to enroll in developmental (remedial) 
courses so that they may become better prepared academically to enroll in college-level courses 
and vie successfully with students that are college-ready, ultimately allowing them to earn a 
postsecondary degree. However, a major drawback to these courses is that they are not 
applicable toward an associate or baccalaureate degree. Moreover, prevailing perceptions are 
that, while extremely costly, developmental courses are not working and producing the desired 
outcome. Bettinger.s and Long.s (2004) approximation of the annual cost of remediation is over 
$1 billion dollars for public colleges alone. Opponents of remedial education consider 
developmental education as “…a hoax perpetrated upon academically weak students who will be 
unlikely to graduate” (Deil-Amen & Rosenbaum, 2002; Rosebaum, 2001). Proponents, on the 
other hand, stress that most students who take remedial/developmental coursework subsequently 
complete their degrees successfully (McCabe, 2000; Merisotis & Phipps, 1998). The remediation 
of college students has provoked a serious discussion on the effectiveness of developmental 
programs in successfully remediating college students. 
.MOTIVATION OF THE REVIEW. 


LARGE NUMBERS OF STUDENTS NOT PREPARED AND IN DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION. In 
an early investigation of the remediation of college students, Hagedorn, Siadat, Fogel, Nora and 
Pascarella (1999) reported that 46% of U.S. students enrolled in college, and who had acquired 
credit for 3 or more courses, had been enrolled at some point in at least one remedial course, be it 


remedial English or mathematics or a course focusing on study skills. Based on a report by 
Adelman (1995), the authors note that remedial courses were offered in 64% of all four-year 
colleges, 90% of community colleges, and 91% of public colleges. Non-participation in 
remediation included those students that had achieved a high level of performance in 
mathematics, came from families with high socioeconomic levels, were not from a racial/ethnic 
minority group, and whose parents had either attended an institution of higher education or had 
earned an undergraduate degree. As for those students who had received remediation, they 
reported high levels of achievement in high school math and that the racial composition of their 
high schools and neighborhoods was much more highly mixed, if not totally minority. 
A year later, Merisotis and Phipps (2000) compared differences in remedial course 
offerings between two time periods, 1983-1984 and 1995. They found that during the earlier time 
period, 82% of all higher education institutions had offered developmental courses in reading, 
writing, and mathematics, in contrast to the 78% reported in fall 1995. Remedial reading courses 
were offered 66% in 1983-1984 and 57% in fall 1995. Courses in remedial writing were offered 
73% compared to 71%; and courses in remedial mathematics were offered 71% in 1983-1984 
compared to 72% ten years later. 

A further breakdown of the data revealed that 78% of postsecondary institutions enrolling 
first-year students in fall 1995 had offered at least one remedial reading, writing, or mathematics 
course. Merisotis and Phipps found that all public two-year institutions and 94% of the 
institutions with high minority enrollments had offered remedial courses. At least 29% of all 
students enrolling in college for the first time had been assigned no less than one remedial 
reading, writing, or mathematics course. First-year students were also more likely to take a 
remedial mathematics course than a remedial reading or writing course, regardless of what 
institution they attended. Based on their findings, students from the different institutions in the 
study were not enrolled in remedial courses for any extended periods of time. Among all higher 
education institutions, the average length of time a student took remedial courses was less than 
one year, 28% were enrolled in remedial course for one year, and 5% for more than one year. In 
their comparison across time, Merisotis and Phipps concluded “Although little change resulted in 
the percentage of students enrolling in remedial courses from fall 1989 to fall 1995, college and 
university enrollment increased by approximately a half million students. At least 78% of higher 


education institutions enroll underprepared students and that, in all probability, more than 30% 
of the students require remediation.” 
In a separate study, Hoyt (1999) examined the enrollment of community college students 
in general and found that roughly 21% of all entering students required remedial education in 
two subject areas while 11% needed remedial education in three subject areas. Among those 
students, 44% were assigned remedial math courses, 34% were enrolled in remedial English, and 
12% were asked to take remedial reading courses. The author found that students who needed 
remediation in reading generally required remediation in all three areas. The findings were 
similar to those reported by Lewis, Farris and Greene (1996). Those authors established that 29% 
of first-time freshmen in higher education (and 41% of first-time freshmen in public two-year 
colleges) were enrolled in at least one remedial course. In a breakdown of who participates in 
remediation in the state of Florida, Grimes and David (1999) reported that among the 1993 
cohort of entering Florida community college students, 54% of the non-minority students and 
90% of the Black students were placed into at least one remedial course. In separate studies, 
Attewell, Lavin, Domina, and Levey (2006) and Woodham (1998) concluded that roughly 40% 
of the more traditional student takes at least one remedial course and that remediation is more 
frequent among older nontraditional students. 
Although different figures have been reported by different authors, the fact remains that 
the number of students entering higher education in need of remediation is not small. It is 
thought that in some institutions situated in large urban areas, between 80% and 85% of first-
time entering students are required to enroll in at least one remedial course (Krupnick, 2006). 

At Chaffey College, educators estimated that 98% of their students entering college for 
the first time were unprepared for college work in at least one basic area. In California, the 
problem extends beyond community colleges, as four-year institutions have been forced to deal 
with developmental education. At Cal State East Bay, for example, 70% of the 2000 freshman 
class needed English remediation, 64% needed math remediation and 54% needed work in both 
areas. More than 33% of UC Davis students enrolled required assistance in English. Only a little 
more than 33% of California's 11th-graders were proficient in English in the previous year before 
enrolling in college. Among African American students, that ratio dropped to one in five. At the 
national level, the NCES (2004-010) report estimated that in fall 2000, some 76% of 
postsecondary institutions offered at least one remedial reading, writing, or mathematics course. 


An examination of postsecondary transcripts of 1992 12th-graders who enrolled in postsecondary 
education between 1992 and 2000 indicated that 61% of students who first enrolled in a public 2-
year and 25% who first enrolled in a 4-year institution completed at least one remedial course at 
the postsecondary level. 
Based on those previous studies, so many conclusions have been drawn and assumptions 
made regarding the makeup of different groups of students in developmental education. In an 
attempt to address these controversial issues, Grubb (2001) examined students who were part of 
the NELS:88 database. The following table displays those assumptions that surround discussions 
on developmental education. 

Assumptions 

Findings 

Developmental students are 
enrolled in too many 
remedial courses. 

Analyses indicated that, while such students exist, they are a 
numerical minority among students in remedial courses: 

. 
42% of students took no remediation 
. 
44% took between one and three courses 
. 
only 14% enrolled in more than three remedial courses 


At nonselective four-year colleges: 

. 
69% took no remediation 
. 
26% enrolled in between one and three courses 
. 
5% took more than three 


At selective four-year colleges: 

1. 2% of NELS:88 students took more than three remedial 
courses 


At highly selective four-year institutions: 

. 
almost no one attempted multiple remediation courses 


Developmental students 
enter college with poor high 
school preparation. 

Students from different high schools enroll in remedial courses: 

1. 40% from rural high schools 
2. 38% from suburban high schools 
3. 52% from urban high schools 


Developmental students 
enter college with very 
weak academic skills 

High school quartiles and enrollment in remedial courses: 

1. 10% from top quartile on skills tests 
2. 25% from second quartile on skills tests 


Students from advanced curriculum programs in high school: 

1. 14% from top quartile enrolled in at least one remedial 
course 
2. 32% from second quartile enrolled in at least one 
remedial course 
3. 32% from lowest quartile took no remedial coursework 




 

PREPARATION, PARTICIPATION, AND PERSISTENCE. While the previous section focused on 
the disproportionate number of students enrolling college requiring remediation, this section 


examines factors that impact student outcomes for developmental students. Regardless of what 
research design or theoretical framework was employed, several findings have been reported in 
the existing literature. While the majority of these studies have focused on evaluation, a few have 
examined the interrelationships among behaviors, attitudes and perceptions and their impact on 
student outcomes. Attempts at assessing the effectiveness of remediation have not only resulted 
in mixed findings but are few in number. Moreover, the emphasis taken in these studies is just as 
mixed, with some focusing on the differences from the participation of students in developmental 
education to course completion, academic achievement, transfer, persistence or graduation. The 
following sections will examine the findings associated with those studies in five categories of 
emphasis. 
Pre-college Background Characteristics. Hagedorn, Siadat, Fogel, Nora and Pascarella 
(1997) compared first-year college students enrolled in remedial-type mathematics courses with 
their counterparts enrolled in non-remedial coursework. Their findings verified that students 
enrolled in non-remedial mathematics courses enter higher education with many advantages over 
students enrolled in remedial mathematics. Tests of a path analytic model confirmed that, for 
developmental students, their gender, ethnicity and family income levels played a major role in 
determining success in college mathematics. For non-remedial students, higher income, non-
minority status, and having parents with higher education led to higher levels of math 
achievement. For remedial students, higher levels of high school math was the only significant 
construct, in addition to racial composition of high school attended and neighborhood in which 
the student resided, that affected achievement in mathematics. 

In an examination of participation in a community college developmental education 
writing course and its relationship to short and long-term academic performance, Crews and 
Aragon (2004) revealed that initial developmental writing course participants within a three-year 
period did not differ from non-participants at a statistically significant level with regard to age, 
gender, ethnicity, high school experience, writing test score, initial enrollment status, degree-
certificate intent, or transfer intent. Participants in later developmental writing courses did not 
differ from non-participants at a statistically significant level according to the variables of age, 
gender, high school experience, writing test score, initial enrollment status, degree-certificate 
intent, or transfer intent. However, those enrolled in a developmental writing course past the first 
year differed significantly with non-participants according to ethnicity. Thirty-nine percent 


among later participants were minorities compared to 24% of the non-participants. Because the 
study was not designed to investigate such a phenomenon, the authors could not conclude the 
reason behind the pattern. 
In a comparison of students enrolled in developmental education with those students that 
entered college prepared to take college-level courses, Grimes and David (1999) did not find any 
significant differences between developmental and college-ready students with regard to age and 
family demographics or significant differences in gender or part-time versus full-time status. 
Both groups of college students reported an average family income between $25,000-$29,000 
and, in both groups, fathers who had earned credit in a few postsecondary courses or had 
received some kind of trainings. 
The two groups were found to be different by ethnicity, types of high school coursework 
previously taken, high school grade point averages (GPAs), educational degree aspirations, and 
numerous attitudinal factors. African American students were represented in greater numbers 
among developmental students, 21% compared to 6% among college-ready students. Remedial 
students differed from non-remedial students regarding: (1) the number of years of high school 
coursework in math, physical science, biological science, and foreign language, (2) high school 
GPAs with average grades of B- for developmental students compared to B for college-ready 
students, (3) fewer planned years of college with more vocational and associate of science degree 
aspirations than four-year or graduate degrees for remedial students, whereas college-ready 
students planned to attend more years of college with higher degree aspirations including 
graduate degrees, and in (4) reasons for attending college, ability ratings, previous year's 
activities, goals and values, future activities, and opinions, as well as academic performance and 
persistence. 

 Differences as a Result of Program Participation. Utilizing college transcripts, Attewell, 
Lavin, Domina, and Levey (2006) designed a study where the effects of remedial coursework 
were separated from the effects of a high school preparation on different measures of academic 
success. Furthermore, they examined those differences by two- and four-year institutions. After 
accounting for a student.s high school academic preparation, their findings indicated that, for 
students enrolled in two-year colleges, enrollment in remedial education was not associated with 
less academic success. As for students enrolled in four-year colleges, there were harmful effects 
attributed to remedial coursework. A positive finding associated with four-year developmental 


efforts was that many minority students who completed an undergraduate degree did so after 
taking remediation. 
Hodges (1998) found that students required to take developmental courses (based on 
lower ASSET scores) were somewhat successful in completing those courses. The author, 
however, acknowledged that a completion rate of 61%-70% was only adequate. A positive 
aspect of remediation was the finding that indicated students who were required to take 
developmental courses prior to enrolling in college-level coursework were succeeding in non-
developmental courses with similar completion rates; the negative side of the findings, on the 
other hand, revealed that developmental students recorded lower grades than those students who 
did not require any remediation because of their higher ASSET scores. 
Because so few comprehensive, large-scale, multi-institutional evaluations of remedial 
programs have been published, Bahr (2008) undertook such a venture paying particular attention 
to testing the efficacy of remedial math programs. The author.s use of hierarchical multinomial 
logistic regression to analyze data of 85,894 freshmen enrolled in 107 community colleges was 
intended to compare the long-term academic outcomes of students participating in 
developmental education and who successfully achieve college-level math skills against those 
students who enter college ready to tackle college-level math skills without remedial assistance. 
Bahr concludes that students in both groups experience comparable outcomes (achieving 
college-level math skills) indicating that remedial math programs are highly effective at 
resolving skill deficiencies. 
Finally, using a regression-discontinuity design within the framework provided by 
discrete-time survival analysis, Lesik (2007) was able to derive an unbiased estimate of the 
causal impact of participating in developmental education in mathematics. The study established 
that the risk of dropping out of college among developmental students was significantly lower 
than for equivalent students who did not participate in such programs. 

 Student Retention. The current section focuses on those studies that examined the impact 
of developmental education mainly on student retention. As previously discussed, Hoyt (1999) 
concluded that as the number of areas needing remediation increased for students, dropout rates 
also consistently increased. The effect of remedial education was noted not only in terms of 
student persistence but in other student outcomes such as the student's GPA during their first-
term in college. At the end of the first-term for students in the database, the average grade point 


average for non-developmental students was 2.8 as opposed to a 2.54 for developmental 
students, with most students earning C grades in their courses. Those students in need of 
remediation in two areas recorded a first-term GPA of 2.47, while those in need of remediation 
in English, mathematics and reading had an average first-term GPA of 2.30. Hoyt noted that a 
lack of preparation for college-level courses to a large extent reduced a student's chances of 
college success by decreasing their ability to perform academically. 
Bettinger and Long (2005) looked at the effects of English and math remediation on 
student persistence. The sample consisted of first-time community college students from 1998 to 
2003. The authors found that students placed into remediation persisted just as well as similar 
individuals who were not enrolled in remedial courses, although math remediation appeared to 
improve some student outcomes. Their findings substantiated those of Jepsen (2006) who had 
analyzed the effects of taking developmental courses on persistence to the second year of college 
for a similar sample of community college students in the state of California. Jepsen similarly 
had found that enrolling in developmental courses was associated with returning to college for 
the second year as well as completing transfer-level classes. However, Jepsen also found 
differences in grouping the students by age. For the more traditional college-age students, 
developmental courses were negatively associated with transfer; for older students, the 
association was positive for returning and attaining a degree or certificate. 

In some studies, the focus of the investigation is not on the total remediation program but, 
rather, on individual remedial courses and the impact they may have on student outcomes. For 
example, Crews and Aragon (2007) examined the relationships between first semester 
enrollment in a developmental writing course at a community college and student persistence 
and goal attainment. In their study, the authors investigated whether participants in a 
developmental writing course completed more of the courses that they attempted, subsequently 
enrolled in more semesters, and completed a degree or certificate and/or transferred at higher 
rates when compared to those not required to enroll in a developmental writing course. Their 
analysis revealed that those students that had been enrolled in a developmental writing course 
had completed more of the hours they had attempted compared to those students that were not 
required to enroll in a developmental writing course. The same students enrolled in the remedial 
writing course were also found to be enrolled in more semesters than non-participants in the 
writing course. At the end of a three-year period, participants and non-participants were 


examined for differences in degree/certificate completion. The finding was that there were none; 
those that initially enrolled in the writing course versus those that were not required displayed 
similar completion rates. 
Kreysa.s (2007) study advanced the study on remediation by focusing on the explanatory 
predictors of student persistence among remedial and non-remedial students. An examination of 
the regression equations for both developmental and non-developmental students revealed that a 
set of variables based on a priori hypotheses did not exert the same influence across both groups. 
In combing both groups, the findings would indicate that declaring a major upon entering college 
had a positive effect by increasing the chances of persisting while changing majors had a 
negative effect leading to more dropout behavior. Yet, the finding is misleading as there are 
differences in how those variables play out in both groups. For non-remedial students, those 
factors that most predicted whether the student would persist inlcuded declaring a major upon 
entering college (positive influence), changing majors after declaring one (negative influence) 
and the student.s cumulative grade point average (positive influence). As for developmental 
students, those factors that influenced their decisions to re-enroll in college included the 
student.s SAT verbal scores (positive influence), changing majors after declaring one (negative 
influence), and cumulative grade point average (positive influence). For developmental students, 
entering college with a lower academic ability, changing their minds on what to major in, and not 
performing academically well led to the increased likelihood that the student would drop out of 
college. 
Pedagogical Factors. In their efforts at providing a conceptual framework for the 
evaluation of developmental education programs, Levin and Calcagno (2008) reviewed several 
studies that included a look at different remedial teaching approaches designed to raise the 
academic performance of remedial students at two-year institutions. The authors concluded that 
the traditional drill-and-skill approach that is often used at community colleges is not as 
productive as other available alternatives (e.g. collaborative learning, student-led instruction) in 
lessening the dropout rates among developmental students as well as their failure rates. For that 
reason, they encourage community colleges to carry out formal evaluations of different remedial 
approaches so that they may test their efficacy and cost-effectiveness, pursuing a wise 
remediation strategy. 


 Basic Skills Deficiencies. Another outcome associated with the remediation of college 
students is one that deals with college-level skills. Bahr (2007) tested the hypothesis that 
“multiple basic skill deficiencies, rather than exhibiting additive effects alone, may exhibit a 
negative multiplicative interaction effect on the likelihood of successful remediation.” In other 
words, the researcher tested the hypothesis that students who begin college with a math 
deficiency may decrease in magnitude over the years if it is accompanied by an increase in 
English competency. This interaction, however, did not have substantive importance because of 
the powerful negative direct effect of math deficiency on the likelihood of successful 
remediation in math. Eventually, students with math deficiencies did not overcome those 
deficiencies as they learned and became more proficient in English. Bahr sadly concludes that 
“although intended to reduce disparities between advantaged and disadvantaged groups, in the 
end those who need remediation the most are the least likely to remediate successfully, while 
those who require the least remediation are the most likely to remediate successfully.” 
PROBLEMS WITH PLACEMENT TESTS. An issue that highly overlaps with 
developmental education is the use of placement tests to classify remedial students and require 
them to enroll in developmental courses. The question remains, are these placement tests 
accurately measuring the student.s ability to engage in college-level work. A big part of the 
assessment tools that are used to place developmental students are reading tests. Behrman (2000) 
examined content-general reading tests from which passages from a variety of subject areas are 
frequently used as part of a college's placement system. The author addresses issues of validity 
that are associated with three popular content-general reading tests. Behrman proposes a 
theoretical argument for the use of an alternative placement procedure using content-specific 
testing. Support for the use of content-specific testing is theoretically-based on research in 
reading and cognitive psychology that establishes the impact of content-related factors on 
comprehension. The author not only addresses a much-discussed issue, the ability of placement 
tests to correctly distinguish between those in real need of remediation versus those that do not 
require intervention but does provide empirical evidence on the need to be more accurate in 
identifying specific areas in need of remediation for those that are placed in developmental 
courses. Behrman articulates the importance of appropriate testing: 

1. Content-specific testing should benefit students with high prior declarative or 
strategic knowledge in a given field who may have been denied access under a 





content-general testing program to a course for which they were actually 
qualified. 




 

2. Content-specific testing should also benefit students with low prior declarative or 
strategic knowledge by identifying the subject area in which developmental 
assistance is needed. 




 

3. Follow-up diagnosis could then indicate whether a low score indicates weakness 
in prior declarative knowledge, content-related strategic knowledge, or content-
general skills. 




 
In a case study that examined the effectiveness of teaching developmental writing 
courses, Southard and Clay (2004) relied on the measurement of skills provided by the Florida 
College Placement Test as the major outcome used in their comparisons. The assumption guiding 
the study hypothesized that a college prep English course prepared students to succeed in a 
college-level composition course. The authors found no significant difference in the mean 
college-level composition grades between those students that initially enrolled in the 
developmental English course and those students that initially enrolled in the college-level 
course. Even more positive findings revealed that developmental students passed the college-
level composition course at a higher rate than that of non-developmental students. Remedial 
students withdrew at a lower rate from the composition course than their non-remedial 
counterparts, and required fewer attempts to pass the course. However, the data revealed one 
indeterminate and disturbing finding. Southard and Clay found a non-significant association 
between Florida.s state-mandated placement test scores and student grades in all writing-
intensive courses. One possible implication of that finding is that the placement tests may not 
function as they were intended. The fact that many students placed into remedial courses 
outperformed non-remedial students could possibly point to the misclassification of students. 
Without more theoretically-sound research, it is difficult to say whether the remedial students 
outperformed non-remedial students because of the remediation provided by the developmental 
education they received or simply because many remedial students were not in need of 
remediation. 

 Further evidence of the lack of validity in current placement tests is seen in an earlier 
study by Lavin and Weininger (1998). While the authors found that graduation rates were 
inversely related to the number of academic skills or placement tests that remedial students had 


failed, they pointed out that approximately a quarter of those students who initially failed all of 
the placement tests subsequently graduated. When ethnicity was introduced into the analysis, 
Lavin and Weininger noticed that among African American, Hispanic, and Asian American 
students that had earned a bachelor.s degree, over 50% of them initially failed skills tests, 
exceeding the number of minority students who had initially passed all of the areas covered in 
the placement tests. The investigators arrived at a rather misguided conclusion: “While 
placement in remedial courses per se did nothing to enhance students. subsequent academic 
achievements, success in remedial courses did make a significant difference. Among students in 
bachelor.s degree programs, those who passed at least one of their remedial courses were more 
likely to persist in college than were comparable low-skill nonremedial students, and they earned 
more credits.” They further established that similar results were found among two-year college 
students. “Students who passed at least one of their remedial courses (85% of takers were in this 
category) were more likely to stay in college, and were more likely to graduate or to transfer into 
a bachelor.s degree program than were otherwise similar students who did not take remedial 
coursework.” It is possible to conclude that remediation makes a difference; it is just as easy to 
reach the conclusion that placement tests were not as accurate in classifying students. Once 
more, without further research, it is difficult to reach a valid conclusion. 
Mazzeo (2002) examined the enactment and early implementation of remedial education 
in two states, MA and OK. In both states, remediation reforms were undertaken as part of a 
larger set of policies aimed at increasing the motivation of students by raising the stakes for their 
academic performance. A big part of the reform was based on the notion that high-stakes testing 
would provide incentives for learning that were otherwise absent in the American educational 
system and thus would have the potential to motivate higher levels of student academic 
performance (Bishop, 1996, 1998; Costrell, 1994). The implementation of high-stakes testing 
statewide is predicated on the ability and validity of placement tests to accurately identify those 
students most in need of remediation. Those efforts have been supported and aided by national 
organizations as the College Board, as in the developmental of the Florida College Placement 
Test. 

The efficacy of remediation relies largely on actionable assessment, advising, and 
placement. At the October 2008 meeting of the Higher Education Policy Institute, a project of 
the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, one conclusion reached by a group of experts 


from different sectors of higher education centered on the need to have assessment and 
placement of students into developmental courses based on valid and accurately derived 
placement scores along with the need for clear roadmaps leading to the completion of students. 
program/educational goals. It is believed that student academic needs can only be addressed with 
the use of reliable and conceptually valid placement tests. Such tests would provide the starting 
point for remediation and the design of specific academic plans for students to follow on their 
way to a successful completion of their postsecondary goals. 

What doesn.t work in the assessment of students for placement is the lessening of 
standards at the state or institutional levels. Perin (2006) conducted an investigation of state and 
institutional practices for remediation in 15 two-year colleges that were specifically selected for 
a representative sample of community colleges by region, size, and unbanicity. The author 
found that in dealing with the struggle between the access mission of the traditionally open-door 
community college and the drive to protect educational standards, quite often assessment and 
placement mandates were softened either at the state or institutional level, with the effect of 
reducing the number of students who were required to enroll in remedial courses. 



One program addressing the issue of underprepared students through appropriate and early 
assessment of students is the Early Assessment Program (EAP), a collaborative effort among three 
important state entities in California: California State University (CSU), California Department of 
Education (CDE), and California State Board of Education (SBE). The goal of the partnership was to 
ensure that college-bound high-school graduates have the English and mathematics skills expected 
by the state university. The program specifies that after 11th-graders take a state placement test, they 
are notified whether they have either met the CSU expectations (and are thus exempt from any 
additional CSU placement tests) or whether they need additional preparation in order to be successful 
in college-level work. Those identified as requiring remediation have their entire senior year to 
prepare further. Individual strengths and weaknesses are pinpointed by using the CSU Diagnostic 
Writing Service on the web or the Mathematics Diagnostic Testing Project. The final component of 
the intervention program is faculty development. Through a collaborative effort, faculty in the CSU 
teacher-education program sponsor reading institutes and develop materials through which high 
school teachers can improve their skills in helping students to read and write effectively. The 
program was enacted in 2004 and yearly reports are available on the internet. However, an 
examination of the EAP 2008 Report reveals that even after four years, 82% of high school students 
did not demonstrate college readiness for College English and 75% did not demonstrate college 


readiness for College Mathematics (Algebra II), while at the same time reporting that 65% were only 
conditionally ready based on a summative high school mathematics test and 14% not ready to handle 
college math. No studies have been conducted to uncover why such an assessment initiative has not 
had the positive results that were widely anticipated. 
Recently, the Education Commission of the States (2006) examined the placement 
policies of states. In their study, the Commission identified several issues surrounding 
developmental education: placement tests and mandatory remediation, concurrent enrollment, 
limits on time and course repeats, and strong state control. Their observation revealed that while 
several issues were debated in a fair number of states from 2004 to 2006, relatively little policy 
action was taken with respect to any of them. Among those issues that generated the most state 
policy actions during that time period was mandatory remediation for students who failed 
placement exams, emphasizing the importance of the validity and accuracy of those instruments 
that are used for placement into remedial courses. 
LACK OF A CONSENSUS ON EFFECTIVE SOLUTIONS. Perhaps even more important is 
whether or not remediation fulfills it major goal, providing an opportunity to successfully engage 
a college-level curriculum and ultimately earn an undergraduate degree. The literature is mixed 
on this subject matter, somewhat limited in scope, and to a certain extent, dated. 

Guided by conventional thinking that two-year colleges are institutions that simply cool 
out the educational aspirations of students, Deil-Amen and Rosenbaum (2002) examined 
remediation in community colleges and concluded that extending the length of time to 
graduation by requiring students to enroll in developmental education was detrimental to those 
students. The authors conclude: “This process looks a lot like the swindles that Goffman 
…described” and “the delayed recognition caused by a stigma-free approach may be contributing 
to students dropping out of college altogether and hence accumulating no credentials rather than 
a lesser degree” (p. 264). Adelman (2004) found that students that were required to enroll in 
remedial courses in college had markedly lower graduation rates, noting that only 39% earned a 
bachelor.s degree in contrast to the 69% who earned degrees and were not required to enroll in 
developmental courses. Adelman concluded that students that are required to take copious 
remedial courses in college are among the least likely to graduate from college. Further evidence 
that the length of time that is added by enrolling in remedial courses is contributing to the 
dropout problem was the percent (55%) of students that graduated with a degree but had only 


taken one developmental course. For those students that enrolled in five or more remedial 
courses, only 35% ever graduated with a degree. It is possible that for many developmental 
students, the unsuccessful performance in remedial courses extends the length of time in college, 
does not bring the student closer to earning college-credit courses, and adds a financial burden 
with every new semester enrolled in college. 
Grimes and David (1999) examined differences in semesters enrolled, hours completed, 
GPA, and persistence rates between remedial and non-remedial students. The authors reported 
that for course completion rates (calculated by dividing the total hours each student completed by 
the hours they attempted) those students considered underprepared recorded a 59.7% completion 
rate, having earned 28.8 mean credit hours and attended an average of 4.11 semesters. For 
college-ready students, a 76.7% completion rate, 45.74 mean credit hours and 4.91 semesters 
were recorded. The difference in the average number of semesters for which developmental 
students enrolled in remedial courses, on the surface, may look as though it substantiates an 
entirely opposite view. However, taking into account the number of credit hours earned, one 
conclusion that can be drawn is that developmental students who had attended an average of 4.11 
semesters, but had only earned a mean of 28.8 credit hours, had spent a large amount of time in 
remediation as opposed to those students who were not required to take remedial courses. After 
an average number of 4.91 semesters, these students had earned twice as many credit hours in 
roughly the same time period. For remedial students, the extra time without credit may have been 
too much and may have decided to drop out of college. 
Grimes and David (1999) also examined differences in persistence rates, imposing a 
three-year completion rate. Their study revealed that retention was significantly greater for those 
students that were considered as college-ready: a three-year graduation rate of 15%, with 32% 
completing more than 65 semester hours or remaining enrolled in college. Underprepared 
students, on the other hand, displayed a 2% graduation rate with 25% completing more than 65 
hours or still enrolled in college. In other words, the attrition rate (or the number of students 
dropping out of college) at the end of a three-year period was 53% for the college-ready students 
compared to 73% for underprepared students. 

 While the preceding studies make note of the lack of success of remediation efforts, other 
investigations point to the effectiveness of developmental education. Similar to the previous 
studies, these reports have focused on specific outcomes to include graduation rates, academic 


performance, course completion rates, hours earned and student persistence rates. Merisotis and 
Phipps (2000) point to the evidence that reveals a story of success for developmental education. 
While students that never took a remedial course graduated at a rate of 60%, even those students 
identified as the least academically prepared who took five or more remedial education courses 
reported a 35% graduation rate. Based on those figures, the authors concluded that the 
remediation of students that were academically weak made it possible for those students to 
perform almost three-fifths as well as the students who did not need any remediation. 
Developmental students who needed to enroll in two remedial courses performed almost three-
quarters as well as the academically strongest students. 
In a multivariate analysis comparing developmental and non-developmental students at 
both two- and four-year institutions, Grubb (2001) emphatically establishes the effectiveness of 
developmental education for underprepared students. His research led to several findings: 

. 
Public colleges are more likely to require remedial coursework than private institutions, 
for equivalently skilled students. 
. 
A student is also less likely to graduate from a public than from a private university. 
. 
Black students are more likely to take remediation than similarly prepared White 
students. 
. 
The data shows that 28% of remedial students in two-year colleges graduate within 8.5 
years (compared to 43% of non-remedial students) and that 
. 
52% of remedial students in four-year colleges finish bachelor.s degrees (compared to 
78% of students without remedial coursework). 


Grubb concludes that: “The gap in graduation rates has little to do with taking remedial 
classes in college as opposed to preexisting skill differences carried over from high school.” In 
separating differences between institutional types, Grubb notes that, at two-year colleges, taking 
developmental courses was not linked with lower chances of academic success. Moreover, this 
same conclusion was found for those students who had been enrolled in three or more remedial 
courses. The results of his multivariate analyses led him to conclude that two-year college 
students who took remedial courses were only somewhat less likely to drop out in the short run, 
and were also somewhat less likely to graduate than were non-remedial students with similar 
academic backgrounds. More to the point, those community college students that were required 
to enroll in remedial courses and successfully passed them were more likely to graduate than 


equivalent students who never took remediation, “suggesting that developmental courses did 
help those students who completed them.” 
Grubb also examined students enrolled in remedial courses at four-year institutions. His 
findings pointed to a modest and negative effect of remediation on the students. chances of 
graduation, even when prior academic preparation and skills were taken into account. At four-
year colleges, the graduation rate for students who initially had to take developmental 
coursework was about two-thirds of the graduation rate of students who took no remediation. 
However, while the rate of graduation did not exactly match for both developmental and non-
developmental students, the fact that there was 66% similarity in completion rates makes a 
positive case for developmental education. 
At the state level, Bettinger and Long (2004) utilized a longitudinal database of 8,000 
first-time, first-year students that were enrolled in nonselective four-year public colleges in Ohio 
from 1998 to 2002. Their goal was to gauge the consequences of taking remedial coursework in 
mathematics. As in similar studies, the effects of remediation after controlling for prior academic 
skills were analyzed. The authors. conclusions were: (1) Students enrolled in remedial math 
courses were to some extent more likely to drop out or transfer to a two-year college when they 
were compared to academically equivalent students not enrolled in developmental courses; (2) 
Remediation did not significantly lower the likelihood of earning a bachelor.s degree; and (3) 
Students attending four-year colleges who completed their college remedial coursework were 
more likely to earn an undergraduate degree compared to those equivalent students who did not 
complete remedial math. Contrary to popular belief, success in remedial mathematics courses 
improves a student.s chances of graduating with a degree. 
KEY COMPONENTS FOR DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION. Several years back, the 
Institute for Higher Education Policy (1998) noted that additional research needed to be 
conducted to address the gaps in knowledge about remedial education. It was suggested that case 
studies of several key states would help to determine how strategies proposed and utilized met 
state goals. In spite of that request, little empirically-based research has been added to the 
knowledge base surrounding developmental education and its effectiveness in remediating 
students. Nevertheless, several researchers and practitioners have identified different, yet 
overlapping, sets of components that are believed to be effective and necessary for 
developmental education to succeed. 


McCusker (1999) based those essential components of a developmental program on 
proven success as measured by the percentage of students' course completion and continuing 
college education. The author proposed that the following strategies have emerged as 
recommended ways of making developmental programs effective: 

. 
Collecting student biographical data before and after remedial course completion. 
. 
Linking counseling and support services with programmatic interventions and providing 
counselors with student profiles and course reading and writing requirements. 
. 
Linking learning assistance center activities with classroom instruction. Incorporating 
volunteer instructors and peer tutors in language labs. 
. 
Using computers in the classroom and learning lab. 
. 
Using multi-learning systems (different learning approaches) and structuring sequential 
courses. 
. 
Initiating flexible testing and completion strategies. 
. 
Awarding college credit to some no-credit remedial courses. 
. 
Minimizing remedial class size and hiring instructors who specialize in remediation. 
. 
Requiring remedial instructors to share remediation techniques and otherwise collaborate 
with content-area faculty. 
. 
Requiring content-area faculty to give reading and writing assignments to students. 
Implementing developmental education through the curriculum, as in adjunct models. 
. 
Monitoring student behaviors and continuous evaluation of program effectiveness. 
. 
Communicating with other community colleges to share internal evaluations, 
suggestions, and successful activities. 


Merisotis and Phipps (2000) further develop strategies proposed by the Institute for 
Higher Education Policy (1998) and provide a set of recommendations. Their suggestions focus 
on reducing the need for remediation in higher education by aligning high school and college 
requirements. Further, they propose early intervention for those needing remediation and 
providing financial aid programs to developmental students. Merisotis and Phipps also 
emphasize the need for student tracking and high school feedback systems so that student 
outcomes and enrollment patterns can be assessed and effectively compared. The responsibility 
for student remediation should also be shared by faculty, proposing that teacher preparation 
needs to be addressed. One important component of any remediation initiative is requiring better 


institutional collaboration so that practices that work can be shared and compared among 
institutions dealing with student populations with similar characteristics, avoiding the one-size-
fits-all model. Just as important is the need to make remediation a comprehensive program, both 
in scope and institutional involvement. A good example of a comprehensive, and successful, 
approach is found in California.s Bridge Program. The core components of that program 
includes having: (1) comprehensive faculty and staff development that will transform teaching 
and learning in the classroom; (2) a holistic approach to teaching and utilizing learning 
communities; (3) accurate assessment of student academic needs, (4) validation of students as 
learners in a classroom setting, (5) involvement of the community and parents in the advising 
and mentoring of students; (6) comprehensive academic support; (7) comprehensive student 
support services through the involvement of staff in learning communities; (8) institutional 
climate and cultural adjustments to increase a sense of belonging for all students; (9) full 
engagement of students in the academic and social domains of the institution; (10) a well-
organized plan to aid the transition to college for students; and, finally, (11) the development of a 
culture of care and success in the classroom as well as outside of the classroom. 
In their efforts to deal with the issue of remediation in Texas higher education 
institutions, the Higher Education Policy Institute (2008) has identified a set of changes that 
provide a myriad of modifications to standard offerings. Those more innovative offerings include 
such approaches as self-paced remediation, personalized remediation, tutor-based remediation, 
on-line remediation, accelerated remediation, intensive summer remediation, contextualized 
remediation, combined reading-writing remediation, and combined remedial and college English. 
However, while many of these approaches have received positive feedback at the program level, 
there still is not sufficient empirical evidence on the efficacy and success of those efforts at all 
levels of higher education. 

Perin (2006) compared mainstreamed and centralized developmental education through a 
set of criteria: (1) quality of instruction, (2) availability of ancillary support services, (3) teacher 
motivation and experience, (4) student reactions, and (5) reputation of developmental education 
in the larger college structure. After comparison of both approaches, Perin concluded that 
centralized and mainstreamed developmental education models each had advantages and 
disadvantages. The findings ascertained that mainstreaming had the potential for higher quality 
of instruction and more positive student reactions while centralized departments were superior 


regarding ancillary support services and teacher motivation and experience. Both approaches 
suffered from the low reputation of developmental education in higher education. Once again, 
not one model stood out as the way to go on remediation. 
One final approach to developmental education begins to incorporate the findings of 
several theoretical, trend and descriptive studies on student persistence and learning 
communities. Engstrom and Tinto (2008) synthesize the different empirical findings in the 
existing literature and set forth six major recommendations for adapting the learning community 
model to basic skills instruction for academically under-prepared, low-income students. 


1. Increase the number and variety of learning community programs for students taking 
basic skills with a special emphasis on linking reading and writing courses as well as 
integrating basic skills math courses into the models. 


 

2. Identify and remove potential barriers, such as personnel, campus policies, local or state 
policies that can hinder the development of linked course offerings that infuse critical 
academic support services. For example, institutional policies should not limit students 
with basic skill requirements to complete these courses before being able to enroll in 
credit-bearing general education or major courses. In addition, student requirements to 
pass state-mandated proficiency tests often can get in the way of developing linked 
curricula. 


 

3. Students tend to enroll in learning communities because the model appears to be more 
convenient and a more efficient use of their time. Although students later realize the other 
benefits of participation (e.g., connections with faculty and peers, deeper learning), their 
decision-making focuses on factors that seem to make their life less complicated. These 
elements of the learning community programs should be more clearly communicated and 
marketed to students, using student vernacular and stories in publication pieces, on the 
campus website, or orientation programs. 


 

4. Design learning community programs using the key structural and pedagogical elements 
that contribute to the positive delivery of basic skills classes. 



 

5. Provide ongoing faculty development programs about how to use active and collaborative 
pedagogies in the classroom as well as strategies for introducing and rewarding student 
participation in activities that keep them on task outside of the classroom such as study 
groups and tutoring services. Faculty also needs to learn how to teach in ways that engage 
and motivate students who have been disengaged from their schooling experiences for 
some time (Rendon, 1994, 2004). 


 

6. Systematically evaluate learning communities using longitudinal, quantitative data that 
examines student persistence over time and disaggregates findings based on racial, 
gender, age, income, and language proficiency. 


TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION. While the previous section was 
intended to identify those key components for successful remediation of students, most of the 
authors did not include the need for technology in developmental education with the exception of 
two authors. Merisotis and Phipps (2000) advocate the utilization of technology to increase the 
effectiveness of developmental education for reasons that are quite evident. However, in an 
overview of the literature concerning technology at the post-secondary level, Nora and Snyder 
(2009) conclude: “Perhaps the urgency to find the „magic pill. to cure our educational system of 
its dropout [and remediation] crisis has led us to the point where we are willingly accepting of 
whatever promises to make things better. The reality, though, is that we do not know enough of 
the benefits or misperceptions of technology as they relate to important student outcomes” (p. 
16). The authors noted some evidence of the relationship between technology and student 
outcomes. For example, Xu, Dunn, and Lee (2000) examined the influence of using an integrated 
approach to instructional technology (primarily the Internet) on student learning and the 
acquisition of their research skills. Xu, Dunn, and Lee established that a student.s final grade was 
significantly correlated to both the frequency of computer use by students as well as their 
perceptions of feeling competent with instructional technology. Cheung and Huang (2005) 
explored the manner in which the Internet is utilized in and enhances university learning from a 
student.s perspective. The four major areas of interest related to the use of the internet were: the 
benefits associated with using the Internet as part of a university education, the main influences 
affecting such use, the impact of such use on student learning, and factors fostering positive 


attitudes in students toward the use of the Internet. The Internet was found to favorably impact 
specific outcomes – general learning and constructive learning. Moreover, students that 
possessed the skills necessary to deal with the use of the Internet were more likely to engage 
through distance learning and to achieve higher levels of constructive and general learning. 
Adding to those findings is the research by Frear and Hirschbuhl (1999), Grabe and 
Sigler (2002), Newby and Fisher (1998) and Waks and Sabag (2004). Frear and Hirschbuhl 
(1999) tested the relationship between interactive multi-media and academic achievement and 
higher level thinking skills. Their study focused on the impact of interactive multimedia 
simulations (e.g. text, animation, sound, video, and graphics) as a way to integrate and transform 
a high volume of information into workable solutions on students. course grades and high-level 
thinking skills. Through the use of the Group Assessment of Logical Thinking (GALT) 
(Roadrangka, Yeany, & Padilla, 1983), the authors found that in comparing a treatment group 
and a control group those students assigned to the intervention scored significantly higher on the 
GALT post-test as opposed to the control group. Those students that had participated in an 
interactive multimedia instruction were found to have a notably greater proportion of B grades or 
better than students taught through a more traditional approach. In a separate study, Grabe and 
Sigler (2002) examined the influence of technology on course achievement through a lens that 
spotlighted on the student.s study behavior. Students were introduced to online study tools 
(access to lecture notes, multiple choice practice and short answer practice questions, and book 
notes) that could be used in preparation for course assignments and examinations. The intent of 
that project was to provide an available study support system within a naturalistic environment 
for the student. Those students that accessed the Website and made use of the study tools were 
found to perform much better on three different examinations than those students that did not 
avail themselves of the opportunity to use the online study tools. 

Newby and Fisher (1998) tested the association between computer laboratory 
environment and several student outcomes. The results of a covariance structural model 
indicated that a computer laboratory environment indirectly impacted student achievement by 
directly impacting students. attitudes. Utilizing a true experiment with a pre-test/post-test control 
group design, Waks and Sabag (2004) investigated the influence of the use of project-based 
learning on student achievement compared to the effects of traditional training or via lab 
experiments. The authors were particularly interested in the extent to which achievements in 


“Digital Electronics” improved when learning in a project/technology-based environment 
compared to the achievements of students who conduced structured laboratory experiments. The 
results revealed that students in the experimental group achieved statistically significant higher 
academically than those students in the control group. While all of the preceding studies 
indicated that technology had a positive impact on student achievement, it is noteworthy to keep 
in mind that in all of those studies, no remedial students or classes were involved. However, it is 
not implausible to suspect that those same positive results can also be achieved with 
developmental students. 

.Methodological Considerations in Developmental Studies. 

 

One reason for the mixed findings regarding the effectiveness of developmental 
education has been blamed on methodological considerations that are often ignored by 
investigators in their evaluations of remedial education. Lesik (2008) notes: “With various 
programs and initiatives in higher education it may not be practical or even possible to use a 
random assignment to establish equivalent treatment and control groups (Leake & Lesik, 2007; 
Lesik, 2006, 2007).”1 Using an appropriate statistical technique that can handle the many 
methodological issues surrounding the study of the effectiveness of programs and initiatives in 
higher education, the regression-discontinuity design, Lesik (2007) concluded that there is no 
impact from the participation of students in developmental programs on outcome effectiveness. 
The author describes regression-discontinuity analysis (Thistlethwaite & Campbell, 1960; 
Trochim, 1984) as a way of establishing treatment and control groups which are, on average, 
equivalent to each other with respect to both observed and unobserved factors with the exception 
of a group assignment. 

1 In the regression-discontinuity design, an assignment of an exogenous variable is made that classifies participants 
to a treatment or control group. The assignment variable uses a known cutoff score that is established prior to when 
the treatment began (Shadish et al., 2002). Subjects are assigned to either the treatment or control group based on 
where they score relative to the cutoff point of the assignment variable (Leake & Lesik, 2007; Lesik, 2006; Lesik, 
2007). With the establishment of an assignment variable based on a known cutoff score prior to when the treatment 
began, participants who score just below the cutoff will, on average, be similar to those participants who scored just 
above the cutoff score. By focusing at a very narrow space around the cutoff score, the assignment to either the 
treatment or control group is in effect what a random assignment would generate. Differences between students who 
scores just below the cutoff score and those who score just above the cutoff score is equivalent to what a tie-
breaking random experiment would generate at the cutoff score (Shadish et al., 2002; van DerKlaauw, 2002). 

Bettinger and Long (2005) used the strategy on data from public four-year institutions in 
the state of Ohio. The authors found that enrollment in remedial mathematics and English 


courses not only reduced the likelihood of dropping out but also increased the likelihood of 
persisting to degree completion. In their initial report on learning communities, Learning 
Communities (2008) notes that the lack of evidence supporting the different aspects of those 
communities is simply because “most of the research on learning communities has been unable 
to establish causal links between the intervention and outcomes, especially academic outcomes” 
(p. 2). The authors attribute the lack of a knowledge base on the failure of evaluations to meet 
“the „gold standard. of random assignment design.” The difficulties in achieving “true” random 
assignment can be seen in the wording used to describe the procedure: 
Students are randomly assigned into the program group, which enrolls in a 
learning community, or the control group, which enrolls in the standard courses 
available to all students at the college. …To maximize contrast between the two 
research samples, students in the control group generally agree not to enroll in 
learning communities that involve developmental classes for at least two years 
after random assignment, but enrollment restrictions vary somewhat by site and 
are specified on the informed consent agreement. For example, students in the 
control group at HCCS are not allowed to enroll in any learning communities 
during the first semester, but they are allowed to enroll in nonmathematics 
learning communities in subsequent semesters. (p. 31) 


Three issues must be addressed in attempting an experimental design in an educational 
setting. The first is the strict manipulation of the independent variable, or intervention, in the 
design of the study. The wording “…generally agree not to enroll in learning communities…” 
implies that the strict condition of non-enrollment for the control group is not in the hands of the 
researcher. The possibility of contaminating the control group by including students that are 
enrolled in a class that is taught through a learning communities approach will only serve to bias 
the results of the study. The second issue is related to cross-contamination in one or both groups. 
Students enrolled in the treatment group are not isolated from other students nor are they 
prohibited from interacting with peers who may be enrolled in the control group. Discussions 
and the use of materials and techniques by those in the control group who have come into 
contact, or have formed relationships, with treatment students cannot be controlled. The third 
issue related to the inability to achieve true randomization is the reliance on statistical 
approaches used to compensate for the design.s shortcomings in an educational setting. Whether 
through the use of an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) or discontinuity regression analysis, the 
identification of appropriate, and sufficient, covariates is overwhelming and very difficult to 
overcome. 


 The use of inappropriate designs and techniques to assess the impact of remediation on 
student outcomes oftentimes can lead to misleading conclusions that remedial education is 
effective in assisting students to catch up with college ready students. Kreysa (2006-2007) 
attributes the lack of high-quality research evidence on the effectiveness of remediation to the 
scarcity of data and the abundant methodological flaws not addressed with existing data. Grubb 
(2001) also argues that numerous evaluations of developmental programs are useless because 
they do not specifically address what programs do and consequently provide little empirical 
evidence about what needs to change to make them more effective. In other words, without 
examining the behavioral, attitudinal and cognitive experiences within the context of an 
intervention or the relationships between those experiences and student academic outcomes, 
there is very little guidance of what needs to be done for scalability of an intervention. 
Quite simply, using program outputs such as whether or not a student participated in a 
linked curricula, or even an assignment to a specific study group, does not tell much of a story as 
to real-life experiences, thought processes or behavioral reactions that students had as they were 
introduced into the different aspects of the intervention. If differences among the two groups 
merely compare the performances between developmental and non-developmental students in 
terms of persistence, graduation or academic achievement, remedial students obviously perform 
far worse than those college ready students, attributed mainly to pre-existing differences rather 
than to the intervention (Bettinger & Long, 2005; Grubb, 2001). Another shortcoming of 
previous empirical research is that it does not tackle the issue of how and why students are 
placed in remedial programs (Adelman, 1996). 
Related to the inability to randomly assign students into a treatment or control group, 
evaluations of course grades subsequent to remediation most often do not take into account the 
reality that those who successfully complete remedial courses will do better than those who drop 
out. Grubb (2001) contends that the reason some studies find that students who successfully 
complete remedial courses have better educational outcomes than similar nonremedial students 
(e.g., Attewell et al., 2006) is more related to the fact that the sample of remedial students are 
self-selected. As a result, a comparison between those students that successfully complete their 
remediation and college ready students biases the results of the intervention upward because the 
low-performing students who dropped out without completing the remedial sequences are 
excluded from the analysis. 


Another reason for mixed findings is linked to the misspecification of theoretical 
frameworks, subsequently leading to the inappropriate selection of variables or the exclusion of 
variables in hypothesized models. This shortcoming is usually related to the use of 
nonexperimental designs to examine the effectiveness of developmental education. While this 
design does not rely on random assignment components or any manipulated design components, 
researchers often try to eliminate selection bias through a statistical technique that employs a set 
of control variables such as prior academic results and socioeconomic status, ignoring the 
selection to remedial courses. 
Unfortunately, the use of non-experimental designs to evaluate the cause and effect of 
remediation on a variety of outcomes becomes difficult to defend in higher education because the 
correct identification and selection of key control variables is difficult to accomplish. Oftentimes, 
some factors are difficult to measure. Grubb (2001) notes: “Nonexperimental designs used to 
evaluate the effectiveness of remedial courses should be conducted only when key student 
characteristics such as socioeconomic background, test scores, and data on previous educational 
experiences are well measured.” An example of the appropriate use of this design on a national 
database was conducted by Attewell et al. (2006). Using data from NELS: 88, the authors 
utilized propensity score matching and key student background characteristics to provide an 
evaluation of the effectiveness of remedial courses. Their results led to the conclusion that 
developmental education did not exert a negative effect on degree completion at two-year 
colleges but that there was a negative impact of 6% to 7% on degree completion at four-year 
colleges. Moreover, community college students who successfully completed remedial courses 
had better educational outcomes than similar non-remedial students, substantiating the findings 
by Lavin et al. (1981) and Moss and Yeaton (2006). 

 A more serious problem associated with non-experimental designs is not that appropriate 
control variables are difficult to find but that these designs are used to establish cause and effect. 
The designs are not intended to be used for program evaluations. The strength of non-
experimental designs and sophisticated statistical techniques such as structural modeling is to 
establish the interrelationships among a set of variables dictated by a sound theoretical model, 
not simply for establishing differences between groups. When these models are specified 
correctly, the focus of the study is on uncovering the underlying structural patterns among 
variables found in natural settings. After all, what is the sense in finding that those in 


developmental education do better or worse than non-developmental students if statistical 
control, be it through random assignment or discontinuity regression analysis, does not represent 
reality in the classrooms. Students do not sit in class having checked their values, attitudes, high 
school experiences and perceptions at the door. 
An Example of a Non-Experimental Study. Nora and Garcia (2001) examined the 
perceptions of remediation among developmental students in higher education to determine their 
influence on student achievement and adjustment. The research focused on testing an integrated, 
comprehensive conceptual framework consisting of seven theoretically-driven blocks of 
variables - pre-college factors, environmental factors, academic experiences, social integration 
factors, academic performance, institutional/goal commitment factors and perceptions of 
remediation for their impact on student persistence. The sample in the study was selected from 
among 1,329 female and 1,037 male students enrolled in an urban, open admissions, commuter 
institution comprised of full-time and part-time students of which 54% commuted 11 or more 
miles to campus. A total of 86% of the sample were between the ages of 18 and 22. Nine scales 
were derived to capture remediation perceptions: Value of Remediation, Transitioning to 
Classes, Utility of Remediation, Feelings of Marginalization, Pre-College Underpreparedness, 
Fairness in Placement, Learning Deficiencies, Acquisition of Literacy Skills, and Practical 
Meaningfulness of Remediation. 
The following table displays the results of the logistic regression analysis that was 
conducted on the data. The table represents the seven blocks introduced into the regression 
equation with a listing of the individual variables that comprised each block along with the 
indication as to whether the variable had a negative or positive influence on student withdrawal. 


Variables Impacting Student 
Persistence 


Impact on Outcome 

 

Pre-College Factors 
Accuplacer Reading Score 

 
+ 

Reading proficiency plays an important 
role in the successes of developmental 
students in college. 

Environmental Factors 
Hours Per Week Employed 
Work On-Campus 
Work Off-Campus 
Difficult to Finance Education 

 
- 
- 
- 
- 

Working (on-or off-campus) and the 
stress associated with financial 
concerns significantly pushes the 
developmental student to choose to 
leave college. 

Social Integration 
Social Integration 

 
+ 

Students with higher levels of 
involvement in the social aspects of 




university life are more likely to 
remain in college. 

Academic Experiences 
Positive Academic Experiences 
Academic Resource Utilization 

 
+ 
+ 

Students that more actively utilize 
campus academic resources and 
engage in positive academic 
experiences are more likely to remain 
enrolled. 

Academic Performance 
GPA 

 
+ 

High GPAs are a positive motivator for 
students to stay in college. 

Institutional Commitment 
Institutional Commitment 

 
+ 

Students who feel that they belong at 
their respective institution and who 
believe that there is a definite benefit to 
attending their institution are much 
more likely to re-enroll in college. 



 
Results from the Study. In addition to those included in the previous table, five factors 
related to perceptions of remediation were found to predict the likelihood of persistence. The 
value that students placed on remediation related to support, assistance and encouragement made 
a difference. Students who perceived remediation as beneficial and necessary were more likely to 
re-enroll after their first year in college. Students were also affected by perceived feelings of 
discrimination and marginalization (in class and off-campus), but in a surprising direction. 
Remedial students that perceived discriminatory behavior from faculty and peers were more 
likely to persist. While originally surprising, further examination revealed that students. 
perceptions of those behaviors led to an “I.ll show you” phenomenon. Regardless, perceptions of 
discriminatory behavior exerted a negative influence on other factors in the model. 

Yet another finding associated with remediation was the effect that self-perceptions of 
under-preparedness prior to enrolling in college had on developmental students. decisions to 
drop out. The more students perceived that they were unprepared, the less likely they were to 
decide to re-enroll in the second year with graduation as their goal. The fourth finding linked to 
developmental education was the student.s sense of fairness in the assessment and placement in 
remedial courses. Students that realized their academic ability had been accurately measured, 
that placement tests represented fair assessments, and believed that they belonged in 
developmental classes entered their remediation with positive attitudes that they were fairly 
placed; these attitudes were instrumental in affecting persistence attitudes. A fifth, and 
overlapping result, was the conviction that acquiring literacy skills through remediation was 
necessary to perform well in college. Students that valued the acquisition of those skills were 
affected by these positive academic attitudes in that they were more likely to return to campus 


the following year. The findings from non-experimental studies such as this one can provide 
some direction as to what is happening in developmental education that is associated with 
student outcomes, ultimately informing institutional policy and practices. 

.Emerging Theoretical Basis for Effective Developmental 
Education. 

 As recent as this current year, Henry and Calcagno (2008) noted that: “Remediation is the 
most common approach to preparing students academically and socially during their early stages 
of college. However, despite its profound importance and its significant costs, there is very little 
rigorous research analyzing its effectiveness.” Their goal was to offer a conceptual framework 
that can be used for research on and evaluation of developmental education. While there are 
several studies that have examined differences between those participating and those not 
participating in developmental education, only a handful can be found that have relied on a 
sound theoretical framework to guide their studies. Nora (in press), Castallenos and Gloria 
(2007), and Hurtado (2008) have all stated that even among those that have used different 
theoretical perspectives, they have fixated on one or two models to the exclusion of other more 
holistic perspectives. The following section introduces Tinto.s (1997) Student Integration Model 
as well as other theoretical frameworks and perspectives that have formed the basis for effective 
developmental education. 

Student Integration/Engagement Models. Several national initiatives such as Achieving 
the Dream and The Learning Communities Demonstration have based their programmatic efforts 
on well-established persistence models in the field of higher education (i.e. Tinto, 1993; Nora, 
2003, 2004; Braxton, 2000; Pascarella & Terenzini, 1991) and pedagogical and structural 
transformative perspectives (Rendon, 1994, 2004; Tinto, Goodsell, & Russo, 1993). One 
approach to remediation that has received much attention is the concept of the learning 
community, a concept grounded in Tinto.s (1993) model of student integration. Tinto.s original 
model has undergone many revisions based on both his and others. modifications (for a more 
detailed exposition on Tinto.s model and modifications, see Nora, 2003; Braxton, 2000; 
Pascarella & Terenzini, 2005). Relying on the empirical work guided by his model, Tinto (1997) 
introduced the notion of learning communities, focusing on the social integration of the student, 
his or her academic integration through collaborative learning, and the need for curricular 


coherence. Overall, the theoretical model exerts that persistence and success in higher education 
depend on the effectiveness of the classroom instruction as well as the successful integration of 
students into the academic and social life of the institution. Basically, groups of courses are 
assigned to a cohort of students with the intent of establishing student communities around 
learning. 
Guided by the underlying theoretical perspectives that have been tested and substantiated 
in the literature, programs and initiatives such as the Bridge Program and the Learning 
Communities Demonstration have incorporated core dimensions based on those perspectives. 
Learning Communities (2008) identifies as its core dimensions of learning communities to 
include integration, active-learning pedagogy, faculty engagement, student engagement, 
supplemental student support services, and institutional/structural transformation, key factors 
found to impact the adjustment, engagement, academic achievement and persistence of all 
students (e.g. Tinto, 1993; Nora, 2003; Cabrera, Nora, & Castaneda, 1993; Nora, Cabrera, 
Hagedorn, & Pascarella, 1996; Braxton, 2000; Nora & Crisp, 2008). 
Based on an evaluation of such a framework and using an experimental design (Brock & 
LeBlanc, 2005) and a separate study using a quasi-experimental design (Wilcox et al., 1997), the 
findings revealed some positive outcomes related to learning communities. Most often, these 
learning centers work in conjunction with learning assistance centers, quite diverse in the kind of 
services provided. However, these student support services are accessible to all students, 
developmental and non-developmental even though they pay particular attention to the needs of 
remedial students (Perin, 2004). The author notes, “…because they are designed to meet the 
needs of all students who desire some extra assistance, the impact of such support services on 
remedial students is unclear.” 
Relying on Tinto.s (1993) model, several other studies examined the effectiveness of 
remediation on a variety of outcomes (Grimes & David, 1999; Crews & Aragon, 2004; Moss & 
Young, 1995; Kreysa, 2007). Those studies were examined in the preceding section that focused 
on the impact of developmental education on participation, academic performance, credit hours 
completed, course completion, persistence and graduation. 

Human Capital. Melguizo, Hagedorn, and Cypers (2008) examined the cost-
effectiveness and equity of community college attendance on transfer. Their study was grounded 
in human capital theory (Becker, 1967) and used an equity framework for public education 


(Levin, 1987, 2002). The authors relied on a unique dataset of community college transfer 
students from the nine colleges of the LACCD. The analysis not only provided empirical 
evidence of the true costs of attending a community college in California but also examined the 
cost-effectiveness for those students initially enrolled in remedial education. While the study did 
not concentrate on the effectiveness of remediation as their primary goal, a financial 
consideration associated with taking developmental courses was explored as well. Their findings 
concluded that the added financial burden imposed by having to take remedial courses had a 
negative impact on the transfer of developmental students. The cost associated with courses that 
were not transferrable and the added extended length of time it took to earn transfer-level courses 
was perceived as insurmountable to remedial students. 
Transformation of Curriculum. Though not a specific model per se, several authors 
(Commander & Smith, 1995; Wilcox, del Mas, Stewart, Johnson, & Ghere, 1997) of 
developmental education advance the perspective that basic skills be taught in union with content 
course materials. The thinking is that students may gain experience in transferring those skills to 
tasks that are professed to be "real" because skills taught in isolation are less likely to be applied 
productively to further coursework. While many applications to academic and vocational courses 
have been offered (e.g. adjunct courses, tandem classes, paired courses, packaged courses, linked 
courses), no theoretically-based investigations have been found based on this perspective. 

Learning Communities (2008) proposes that such communities are founded on a “theory 
of change…[that] builds on the well-documented finding that the relationships that students form 
with faculty and other students enable and encourage students to persist and succeed in their 
educational pursuits” and that “collaborative learning and other experiences offered by learning 
communities enhance a sense of belonging, which, in turn, leads to an increase in student effort; 
it is this effort and engagement in learning processes that drives student knowledge acquisition 
and the development of academically relevant skills” (p. 8). A significant part of their core 
dimensions is “Curricular Integration” that includes “aligned syllabi, joint homework 
assignments, and project-based and other learning experiences that encourage drawing on 
materials in all the linked courses” (p. 9). This change perspective is included under curricular 
transformation because variables such as student engagement, sense of belonging, and student 
interactions with faculty are derived from previous persistence and engagement models and 
focuses more on the transformation of classroom structures and materials. While six learning 


communities are currently operational and the random assignment of students to program and 
control groups has been conducted, MDRC notes that “the earliest findings on impacts are not 
expected for at least three years” (p. 3). 

.A Final Thought. 

The discourse and programmatic development on remediation has focused on three key 
contentions. The first tightly held belief is that remediation has an implied positive benefit, that 
remediation is necessary for the academic success in non-developmental courses and the 
attainment of educational goals for those that enter higher education unprepared or 
underprepared. A second conviction centers on the notion that there also is a perceived 
limitation, that remedial efforts may only prepare students for other remedial courses, and not for 
non-remedial ones. The last possibility is that developmental education and its remediation of 
students has not yet been fully examined, that the potential influence of remedial-related 
perceptions, attitudes and values of students in developmental courses have not been included or 
tested in remedial studies. These three presuppositions are based on the collective findings in the 
body of literature on remediation. 
The first two beliefs are predicated on studies with mixed findings regarding the impact 
of remediation on student academic outcomes or educational goals. The last belief is based on 
the view that developmental students. attitudes and perceptions – as learners, on developmental 
programs, regarding faculty-student and peer-student relationships and interactions, on academic 
progress in developmental courses and persistence to graduation – must be considered in the 
programmatic development of strategies, practices, and policies. Data-driven interventions as 
those associated with Achieving the Dream may show promise in guiding remediation efforts. 
Collecting data on students that includes performance indicators as well as measures of the 
underlying behavioral and attitudinal processes that underlie the academic and social experiences 
of developmental students (e.g. the Survey of Entering Student Engagement [SENSE] and 
Community College Survey of Student Engagement [CCSSE]) is necessary for the successful 
remediation of underprepared students entering college. The use of these data points are central 
to monitoring student progress, designing early warning systems, advising, and mentoring 
developmental students. 


Recent practices by such programs as Achieving the Dream, Learning Communities, and 
the First Year Experience have begun to focus on the identification of a specific problem, the 
examination of student outcomes, the collection of quantitative and qualitative data, the use of 
that data for strategic planning and programmatic design, the execution of intervention practices 
and activities, and the evaluation of remedial programs. This approach has integrated data 
collection, program design and evaluation, an approach that is considered as pioneering in the 
use of data. 
Finally, on a design and methodological note, the use of experimental and non-
experimental research designs and qualitative studies is crucial in researching different aspects of 
developmental education. Experimental designs and analyses are necessary to establish the 
causal relationship between participation in remedial programs and specific student outcomes. 
However, non-experimental designs and the use of sophisticated statistical techniques such as 
causal modeling, hierarchical regression analysis and regression discontinuity analysis are 
necessary to uncover the nature and magnitude of the relationships underlying important factors 
that are taking place in those remedial programs. And, finally, qualitative, in-depth studies are 
needed to uncover the nature of those relationships from the phenomenological perspective of 
the students involved in those programs. Put together, the findings from such integrated 
investigations can provide educators, practitioners and policymakers the information that can 
truly make a difference in this very important initiative, the preparation of our students to 
successfully compete and succeed in higher education. 



REFERENCES 
Adelman, C. (1996). The truth about remedial work: It.s more complex than windy 
rhetoric and simple solutions suggest. The Chronicle of Higher Education, p. A56. 
Adelman, C. (1999). Answers in the tool box: Academic intensity, attendance patterns, 
and bachelor’s degree attainment. (Monograph). Washington, DC: Office of Education Research 
and improvement, U.S. Department of Education. 
Adelman, C. (2005). Moving into town-and moving on: The community college in the 
lives of traditional-age students. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Education. 
Attewell, P.S., Lavin, D.E., Domina, R., & Levey, T. (2006). New evidence on college 
remediation, The Journal of Higher Education, 77(5), 886-924. 
Bahr, P.R. (2007). Double jeopardy: Testing the effects of multiple basic skill 
deficiencies on successful remediation. Research in Higher Education, 48(6), 695-725. 
Bahr, P. (2008). Does mathematics remediation work? A comparative analysis of 
academic attainment among community college students. Research in Higher Education, 49(5), 
420-450. 
Bean, J.P., & Metzner, B.S. (1985). A conceptual model of nontraditional undergraduate 
student attrition. Review of Educational Research, 55(4), 485-540. 
Becker, G. (1967). Human capital and the personal distribution of income: An analytical 
approach. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press. 
Behrman, E.H. (2000). Developmental placement decisions: Content-specific reading 
assessment. Journal of Developmental Education, 23(3), 12-16. 
Bettinger, E., & Long, B.T. (2004). Shape up or ship out: The effect of remediation on 
underprepared students at four-year colleges (NBER Working Paper Number 10369). 
Washington, DC: National Bureau of Economic Research. 
Bettinger, E., & Long, B.T. (2005). Remediation at the community college: Student 
participation and outcomes. New Directions for Community Colleges (Vol. 129, pp. 17-26). San 
Francisco: Jossey-Bass. 
Bishop, J. (1998). Do curriculum-based external exit exam systems enhance student 
achievement? CPRE Research Report, University of Pennsylvania. 
Braxton, J.M. (2000). Reworking the student departure puzzle. Vanderbilt University 
Press. 



Cabrera, A.F., Nora, A., & Castaneda, M.B. (1993). College persistence: The testing of 
an integrated model. Journal of Higher Education, 64(2), 123-139. 


California State University. (2008). Accessed on 10/9/2008). The Early Assessment 
Program: Helping High School Students Meet College Expectations in Mathematics and 
English. http://www.calstate.edu/EAP/. 
Castellanos, J., & Gloria, A.M. (2007). Personal communication as panel member at a 
symposium sponsored by the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities and the Lumina 
Foundation. Houston, TX. 
Commander, N.E., & Smith, B.D. (1995). Developing adjunct reading and learning 
courses that work. Journal of Reading, 38(5), 352-60. 
Costrell, R. (1994). A simple model of educational standards. American Economic 
Review, 84(4), 956-971. 
Crews, D.M., & Aragon, S.R. (2004). Influence of a community college developmental 
education writing course on academic performance, The Community College Review, 32(2), 1-
18. 
Crews, D.M., & Aragon, S.R. (2007). Developmental education writing: Persistence and 
goal attainment among community college students. Community College Journal of Research 
and Practice, 31(8), 637-652. 
Deil-Amen, R., & Rosenbaum, J.E. (2002). The unintended consequences of stigma-free 
remediation. Sociology of Education, 75, 249-268. 
Engstrom, C.M., & Tinto, V. (2008). Learning better together: The impact of learning 
communities on the persistence of low-income students. Opportunity Matters, 1, 1-21. 
Frear, V., & Hirschbuhl, J.J. (1999). Does interactive multimedia promote achievement 
and higher level thinking skills for today.s science students [Electronic version]. British Journal 
of Technology, 30(4), 1-8. 
Grimes, S.K., & David, K.C. (1999). Underprepared community college students: 
Implications of attitudinal and experiential differences. The Community College Review, 27(2), 
73-92. 
Grubb, W.N. (2001). From black box to Pandora’s Box: Evaluating 
remedial/developmental education (CRCC Brief No. 11). New York: Community College 
Research Center, Teachers College, Columbia University. 
Grabe, M., & Sigler, E. (2002). Studying online: Evaluation of an online study 
environment [Electronic version]. Computers & Education, 38, 375-383. 



Grunder, P.G., & Hellmich, D.M. (1996). Academic persistence and achievement of 
remedial students in a community college.s success program. The Community College Review, 
24(2), 21-33. 
Hagedorn, L.S., Siadat, M.V., Fogel, S.F., Nora, A., & Pascarella, E.T. (1999). Success in 
college mathematics: Comparisons between remedial and nonremedial first-year college 
students. Research in Higher Education, 40(3), 261-284. 
Hodges, D.Z. (1998). Evaluating placement and developmental studies programs at a 
technical institute: Using ACT.s underprepared students in an urban community college. The 
Community College Review, 26(2), 57-66. 
Hodges, D.Z., & Kennedy, N.H. (2004). Post-testing in developmental education: A 
success story. The Community College Review, 32(3), 35-42. 
Hoyt, J.E. (1999). Remedial education and student attrition. The Community College 
Review, 27(2), 51-72. 
Hoyt, J.E., & Sorenson, C. (2001). High school preparation, placement testing, and 
college remediation. Journal of Developmental Education, 25(2), 23. 
Hurtado, S. (2008). Personal communication at a seminar sponsored by the Association 
for the Study of Higher Education (ASHE) and the Ford Foundation. Santa Fe: New Mexico. 
Ignash, J.M. (1997). Who should provide postsecondary remedial/developmental 
education? New Directions for Community Colleges, 100, 5-20. 


Institute for Higher Education Policy. (1998). College remediation: What it is, what it 
costs, what’s at stake. Washington, DC. http://www.ihep.org/assets/files/publications/a-f/College 
Remediation.pdf. 
Jepsen, C. (2006, April). Basic skills in California’s community colleges: Evidence from 
staff and self referrals. Paper presented at the American Educational Research Association 
(AERA) meeting, San Francisco. 
Kreysa, P.G. (2006-2007). The impact of remediation on persistence of under-prepared 
college students. Journal of College Student Retention: Research, Theory and Practice, 8(2), 
251-270. 
Lesik, S.A. (2006). Applying the regression-discontinuity design to infer causality with 
non-random assignment. The Review of Higher Education, 30(1), 1-19. 
Lesik, S.A. (2007). Do developmental mathematics programs have a causal impact on 
student retention? An application of discrete-time survival and regression-discontinuity analysis. 
Research in Higher Education, 42(6), 709-723. 



Lesik, S.A. (2008). Studying the effectiveness of programs and initiatives in higher 
education using the regression-discontinuity design. In J.C. Smart (ed.), Higher Education: 
Handbook of Theory and Research, pp. 277-297. 
Leake, M., & Lesik, S. (2007). Do remedial English programs impact first-year success 
in college? An illustration of the regression-discontinuity design. International Journal of 
Research and Method in Education, 30(1), 89-99. 
Levin, H.M. (2001). Globalizing the community college: Strategies for change in the 21st 
centrury. New York: Palgrave. 
Levin, H.M. (1987), Education as a public and private good. Journal of Policy Analysis 
and Management, 6, 628-641. 
Levin, H.M. (2002). A comprehensive framework for evaluating educational vouchers. 
Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, 24(3), 159-174. 
Levin, H.M., & Calcagno, J.C. (2008). Remediation in the community college: An 
evaluator.s perspective, The Community College Review, 35(3), 181-207. 
Mazzeo, C. (Fall 2002). Stakes for students: Agenda-setting and remedial education. 
Review of Higher Education, 26(1), 19-39. 
McCabe, R. (2000). No one to waste. Denver, CO: Community College Press. 
McCusker, M. (1999). ERIC review: Effective elements of developmental reading and 
writing programs. The Community College Review, 27(2), 93-105. 
Merisotis, J.P., & Phipps, R.A. (2000). Remedial education in colleges and universities: 
What.s really going on? Review of Higher Education, 24(1), 67-85. 
Melguizo, T., Hagedorn, L.S., & Cypers, S. (2008). Remedial/developmental education 
and the cost of community college transfer: A Los Angeles County sample. Review of Higher 
Education, 31(4), 401-431. 
Moss, R., & Young, R.B. (1995). Perceptions about the academic and social integration 
of underprepared students in an urban community college. The Community College Review, 
16(4), 47-61. 
Newby, M., & Fisher, D. (1998, December). The association between computer 
laboratory environment and student outcomes. Paper presented at the meeting of the Australian 
Association for Research in Education, Adelaide, Australia. 
Nora, A. (April 2003). Access to higher education for Hispanic students: Real or 
illusory? In L. Jones and J. Castellanos. (Eds.), The majority in the minority: Retaining Latina/o 
faculty, administrators and students. Sterling, Virginia: Stylus Publishing, LLC. 


 Nora, A. (2001-2002). The depiction of significant others in Tinto.s “Rites of Passage:” 
A reconceptualization of the influence of family and community in the persistence process. 
Journal of College Student Retention: Research, Theory & Practice, 3(1), 41-56 
Nora, A. (forthcoming, September 2008). Researching Hispanic Undergraduates: 
Conceptual and Methodological Unease. In R. Winkle-Wanker, D. Ortloff and C. Hunter.s (Eds.) 
Bridging the Gap between Theory and Practice in Educational Research: Methods at the 
Margins. Palgrave MacMillan. 
Nora, A., Cabrera, A.F., Hagedorn, L.S., & Pascarella, E.T. (1996). Differential impacts 
of academic and social experiences on college-related behavioral outcomes across different 
ethnic and gender groups at four-year institutions. Research in Higher Education, 37(4), 427-
452. 
Nora, A., & Crisp, G. (2008). Technology and higher education: The impact of e-learning 
approaches on student academic achievement perceptions and persistence. Journal of College 
Student Retention, 10(3), 3-19. 
Nora, A., & Garcia, V. (2001). The role of perceptions of remediation on the persistence 
of developmental students in higher education. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the 
Association for the Study of Higher Education (November). 
Pascarella, E.T., & Terenzini, P.T. (1991). How college affects students. San Francisco: 
Jossey-Bass. 


 Perin, D. (2006). Can community colleges protect both access and standards? The 
problem of remediation. Teacher’s College Record, 
http://www.tcrecord.org/Content.asp?Content.asp?ContentId=12328. 
Perin, D. (2002). The location of developmental education in community colleges: A 
discussion of the merits of mainstreaming vs. centralization. The Community College Review, 
30(1), 27-44. 
Rendon, L.I. (2004). Transforming the first year of college for students of color: Where 
do we begin? In L.I. Rendon et al. (Eds.), Transforming the first year of college for students of 
color. Columbia, SC: Center for the First-Year Experience and Students in Transition. 
Rendon, L.I. (1994). Validating culturally diverse students: Toward a new model of 
learning and student development. Innovative Higher Education, 19(1): 23-32. 
Rendon, L., Novack, V., & Dowell, D. (2005). Testing race-neutral admissioins models: 
Lessons from California State University-Long Beach. The Review of Higher Education, 28(2), 
221-244. 



 Roadrangka, v., Yeany, R.H., & Padilla, M.J. (1983, April). The construction and 
validatin of Group Assessment of Logical Thinking (GALT). Paper presented at the annual 
meeting of the National Association for Research in Science Teaching, Dallas, Texas. 
Rouche, J., & Rouche, S. (1999). High stakes, high performance: Making remedial 
education work. Washington, DC: Community College Press. 
Shadish, W., Cook, T., & Campbell, D. (2002). Experimental and quasi-experimental 
designs for generalized causal inference. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin. 
Southard, A.H., & Clay, J.K. (Step. 2004). Measuring the effectiveness of developmental 
writing courses. The Community College Review, 32(2), 39-50. 
Strong American Schools. (2008). Diploma to nowhere. Report to the Rockefeller 
Philanthropy Advisors, Washington, DC. 
Thistlethwaite, D., & Campbell, D. (1960). Regressioin-discontinuity analysis: An 
alternative to the ex post facto experiment. Journal of Educational Psychology, 51, 309-317. 
Tinto, V. (1993). Leaving college: Rethinking the causes and cues of student attrition. 
(2nd ed.). Chicago: University of Chicago Press. 
Tinto, V., Goodsell, A., & Russo, P. (1993). Building learning communities for new 
college students. Final report of the learning communities project for the National Center on 
Postsecondary Teaching, Learning, and Assessment, Syracuse University. 
Trochim, W. (1984). Research design for program evaluation: The regression-
discontinuity approach. Newbury park, CA: Sage. 
USDOE. U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics. (2003). 
Remedial education at degree-granting postsecondary institutions in the fall 2000. (NCES 2004-
010) Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office. 
USDOE. U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics. (2004). 
The condition of education. Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office. 
Waks, S., & Sabag, N. (2004). Technology project learning versus lab experimentation 
[Electronic version]. Journal of Science Education and Technology, 13(3), 333-342. 
Wilcox, K.J., del Mas, R. C., Stewart, B., Johnson, A. B., & Ghere, D. (1997). The 
"package course" experience and developmental education. Journal of Developmental Education, 
20(3), 18-20, 22, 24, 26. 
Woodham, R. (1998). Report says remedial classes are cost effective. Chronicle of 
Higher Education, A54. 



