To the committee of 10

In the late 1800s there was a great amount of dissatisfaction with the secondary school system.  Due this dissatisfaction which came primarily from college personnel. The National Council of Education appointed a committee to address several issues.  In 1892, this committee, known as "The Committee of 10'up to was appointed to bring "agreement and uniformity to the problem of high school articulation." (Kolb and Waters, p.7).  The the committee was cheered by Dr. Charles Eliot ELI 20, president of Harvard university of.  For the previous 20 years, Elliott has been addressing the lack of uniformity between high school curriculum and the expectations placed all students four admission to college.  The calls of his speech in 1888. to the national education association thatCommittee and 10 was formed under President Ali and thatCommittee for nine formed nine subcommittees of ten members each.  The QEP and the subcommittee's his fourth, called commissions and were established to study and aspects of groups of subjects and.  It is interesting to note the composition of these committees only one of the committee of TN was a high school principal.  Eight of the other nine are primarily concerned with college entrance requirements to the Q the mark of
ThatCommittee stated that certain courses is secondary school curriculum should be eliminated and that he'd given student should only take 3 to 4 courses at a given ThatCommittee said that even though some students may not the college time.  Is more taken, the student may not get the most from school to calls as attention is spread too thin (upNCTM) up.  Up even though ThatCommittee said that some students may not be college found they should be treated the same as a college town person a given class.  If the student want to go into a given location, eight he should take appropriate vocational classes.  ThatCommittee suggested that studies be oriented towards the college bound and the potato course offered in a school was to be based on the subject matter(NCTM, 0164).  

SP" the committee and 10 in unanimously agree...  That every subject which is taught up up up at all is secondary school be taught in the same way and to the same extent every pupil so long as he purses up it, no matter what the probable of destination of the people may be, or at what point does education to is to cease.  Thus for all students who study Latin or history or algebra for example, the allotment of time and a method of instruction in a given school should be the same year by year." (Bossing, p51)e
 The but high school students into a college prep curriculum was to "ease the burden of the colleges for the car of inadequately prepared up to candidates." (Bossing up p51.).  The and in other words the committee wanted to take certain topics and push them down and highols and Hugh to those pushing and should be done  down:" in the opinion of the committee, several subjects now reserved for high school such as algebra and geometry natural scienceactual size and foreign languages should be taught in earlier that now and therefore within the schools classified as elementary; or as an alternative, the secondary school.  She made to get 2 hours earlier than at present, leaving six years and start date for the elementary school..  Under the present organization, elementary subjects in elementary methods are, and judgment committee, kept in use too long" (Inglid us, p291).



SP up the committee recommended that the seventh and eighth grades, which were in elementary school, the make part of high school.
Thus arithmetic should be completed by the great.  Also stated that algebra and geometry should be informally introduced in the upper elementary school and the algebra introduced would include topics such as solving simple equations and how to break expressions up up up

Specifics to what level material should be presented was also included algebra through quadratic equation was to be studied for pop can't.  For week in place at the ninth grade level the study of geometry, including solid geometry, and morale of the graves was recommended for the 10th and 11th years the study and trigonometry and more advanced topics in algebra was suggested for boys
 going to scientific schools.  ThatCommittee advice and all students should take some mathematics after algebra in the ninth grade so, at the suggest a schedule for a college account student per week was ninth grade, periods of algebra 10th grade three periods of geometry 11th grade two periods of algebra and two.  The geometry twelfth-grade three.  The trigonometry(Inglis up, p484).  As seen in the 11th grade thatCommittee one and school teachers to show how to how to treat an algebra or related.  This approach was referred to as correlated mathematics in geometry level of rigor was to be raised and formal logic to be used to.

The recommendations of the committee and 10 did not come without criticism.  Several objections for one) the most complete failure to recognize a practical vocational arts subjects; 2) up the obvious dominance of the college admission to function;
3) and the different differentiation differentiation of curriculums on the basis of a predominant subjects rather than on the basis of the activities of life to which pupils will apply their training;4) meet overemphasis on a study of foreign language;5) the the failure to provide for those pupils must leave school before the secondary school courses can be completed;6) the relatively small amount of flexibility, 7) and QEP the failure in other way to provide curriculums will send it to them and the individual differences. (Ingliss upp.666).  However, despite these criticisms, the committee did much to help the standardization of secondary education and the U.S..
And

Effect of the committee's report was slower and developing by 1911 is estimated that only 38% of the 50 largest school systems, and then put the committee's recommendations for arithmetic and practice.  However "no other force did more to mold the current conception of the mathematics curriculum and college entrance requirements and the recommendation of the mathematics of committee of the committee of TN." (:Kolb waters P9 close parent up for several several of these heses) as: waters along to say, (many current practices and attitudes can be traced back to the antecedents of the mathematics curriculum and ThatCommittee and 10)" several of these are1) college entrance requirements determine the mathematics that is selected the talk and secondary schools2) mathematics and high and school-level is equated with college prep math3) the students must choose between college prep to math courses or virtually no math courses and all.  And4) the student &s must fit to the mathematics content card and a course instead of providing some courses were mathematics content is selected that will serve the students: (a Kolbwaters p9) QEP





Bossing, N. Princilpal of secondary Education, New Jersy Prenptice Hall, 1955.
Kolb, J. & Waters, W. , The Secondary Mathemaitcs Curriculum. Report to the Divison of Mathemacis, NC State Department of Public Instruciton ansd State Advisory Counci on SecondarySchool Mathematics, 1974.Thus ThatCommittee had 10 had a major influence on the education of the us and to all the 20th century.



QEP
And
UpThe " 
Committee and 10 report was generally positive lead to formation of CEeb up
The time 1893 summary:

Seven curriculum needed for college entrance

Math as important for mental discipline experiment mind as a muscle which must be exercised an

College bound

Standardization 
The form due to two dissatisfaction with secondary math and

Recommendations and:

Algebra one geometry mandated for college entrance to the

Rigorous proof and synthetic geometry is

Students take of arithmetic from AIDS 6 to 13

Algebra to be placed in ninth grade
II.  Up committee of the economy of time impact-curriculum development emerged as a field of specialty teachers were participants.  1918

If an influx of immigrants need to educate masses

This before world war one a growing concern that education be more economical and more efficient and

Objectives for to identify minimum essentials of a curriculum

Recommendations: based on the press for social utility

I define teach skills people need to live and work successfully

Efficiency-best roles up for lowest cost up

Led to develop of IQ an achievement test be too stimulation so the use of scientific methods UpThe

III.  Data that's up the up up committee on problems of math and secondary education 1920-negative reactions 
-only learn what is useful and

to be practical
i
Inflows by compact and if who later found by Kilpartrick UpThe who founded in progressive education association compulsory attendance falls

Utility - up grace good for the greatest number of people

Recommendations: individual differences of students called for different courses

Proposed three tier program based on the needs of four different groups

Topics in math selected to serve students as instruments as in attaining a the ends in of the math and self up

IV.  The took the 1923 report:

Generally accepted

To give instructional programs for fairly and you are well established junior and senior high school Charlie roles and compulsory attendance lulls major reason for formation

Recommendations: propose math courses up four also have an eighth graders and seventh graders for all

Two programs for and grade algebra general math-day basis for IP for present up day tracking system up

more the QEPlective  
Upcalculus should not be college entrance requirements and the the
V. PEA the move up a committee own function of math in general education-no immediate changes were forthcoming-1940 two (begun in 1932).

Reaction cto depression
Students centered

Progressive 
Up up place of math in structure general education curriculum to

Recommendations: a Mano specific subject matter recommendations and the the the the the that the

Instead, select the categories of math behavior they felt necessary to problem-solving of life UpThe
d 
VI.  Joint commission of MAA and NCTM up the up up the-the place of math and SecondarySchool 1940 (berg a 1934) impact the delayed to world war and delayetwo the late or commissio the QEPn on post war plans the
Tw upo tracks up - the college verses non up-college up the

And an GEN math with readers coursework with two social utility math and

The teaching given a problem for retardation acceleration evaluations and junior college math and if that I'd go

VII. ommission on post war plans to preparation for acceptance of recommendations of CEeb. positionve reaction
major impact and influence nationwide.

time 1944 - ffrom 1945 on ther thrust of what should be offered was about the same
major Emphasis or Reason for Formation it's at an IP established in 1900.  Major impact in up influence Nationwide
A positive reaction. inaddequacies fun in math educaton testing soldiers
Different strokes for different flols 
neeeds of slow learner recognized
Led way to refomr evaluaton experimentation
offered counseling
Recommendations - Educattion of teachers has to e improved - methods and content
functional competency ofr all who can achieve
math literacy for all that can achive it
use of multi--sensory aidss
8.	College Entrance Examination Commison on Math -appointd by CEEB (est. in 1900) - major impact influence nationwide
Time - 1959 CEEB greatly influenced SM SG UICSM UMAP which greatly influenced all texts.  The

Major emphasis-performance on a nature of college entrance exams

Public dissatisfaction with math programs, curricula, instruction.

Beginning of new math

Focus was on college capable

National need for people skilled in various branches of mathematics.



Recommendations up - 
Up emphasize concepts over up manipulations

Rigorous teacher training -up college course work in math and methods

Federal government stepped in with NSF instituted to train teachers in new math

Upcalculus is college level subject

Developmental of A understanding of deductive method as a way of thinking up

Up9.  The Cambridge conference

Very little impact
concentration onf tearcher training
Up time 1966

Major emphasis-
Up a train teachers -ignore Piaget

The recommendations-use spiral the a approach

10.  The national advisory committee on mathematics education (NACOME) -QEP appointed by NSF and NCTM -little impact

Time 1975

Major emphasis-more students in greater diversity of students

New math had come under close scrutiny

To offer advice

Gave  assessment of where we were

Sought for accountability

Recommendations-

Avoid dichotomies (up incorporate old math with new math)

Blend computers with problem-solving

Emphasis on all students

General understanding of capabilities and limitations of calculators and computers

In service education
have effective student evaluations as an IP 
11.  The prospects in mathematics education (PRIME)-MAA

1978

Major emphasis-to examine impact of technology, exploration and specialization in fields from college level instruction

QEP he felt dominant institution would be the community college

Planning for the future

Primarily concerned with two and four-year colleges

Recommendations-new definition of basic skills 
establish college curriculum

To address transition problems faced by students

The continuing education needs of teachers

Encourage communication needs among teachers-professional organizations

12.  The oh an agenda for action-appointed by NCTM-favorable reaction

Time 1980

Math programs not keeping pace with changing needs of math abilities dictated by developing technologies

Shores in Kuala qualified math teachers

Recommendations-problem solving should be focus of school math to the 1980s

Strict standards for teaching math 
QEP wider range of evaluation and conventional testing 
The accommodate diverse needs student populations

R
Raise the level of public interest and support for math instruction




History of mathematics education -

1600S and 1821-

Small percent of students in school

School not compulsory, nor was it free

High schools emerged before and during the Civil War

The math texts; has ciphering the books



1821-up up 1894

Colburn's the textbook stressed inductive discovery approach (based on up Pestalozgies inductive method)
Up secondary schools became free and compulsory up
The rise of educational philosophies and psychologies
ly
Up founding some of professional and scholoarly societies and journals

Committee and 10 a 1893



1894-1920

Arithmetic, was the colleges SecondarySchool subject, and moved into the elementary grades

Thorndike-stimulus response psychologi

Wertheimer's gestalt approach to education

The establishment of college entrance examination board

MAA up the founded (1915) up

NCTm the founded(the 1920) QEP

Committee on economy of time 1918

Committee on problems of mathematics and secondary education 1920 two paragraphs

Child-study movement 1883-1895

Industrial the revolution

World war one



1920-1945

Three conflicting philosophies-drill theory, incidental learning theory, meaning theory

Rising follow progression education-utility was stressed

Jean Piaget stages of intellectual development

B. F. Skinner's operant up the conditioning and

Depression

World war two-deficiencies in arithmetic knowledge and skills among world war two inductees receive national publicity

The 1923 report

PEA committee on the function of mathematics in general education-1940

Joint commission of MAA the an NCTM-the place of mathematics and secondary school 1940

Commission on post war plans 1944

Begining of junior high error if era

1945-1975

International competition of U.S. and USSR

College and university acadamitions up the turn their attention to the curricula on elementary and secondary schools-the modern mathematics movement was the result-late 1950s-mid 1970s)
Tech revolution

Sputnik 1957

SMSg, up the UICSM, UMAP, SSMCIS-mathematics curriculum projects influenced texts, reflected the new math trend

J up.P. Guilford's up structure of Intellect up
Robert Ga upgnes up hierarchical categorizes of learning

Zoltan Dienes up the multiple embodiments
David Ausubel's up the advanced organizers

William Brownell's up meaningful learning theory

Jaron Bruner discovery learning

Henry Van Engen - up up up up the theory that arithmetic symbols r u up refer to overt acts

College entrance examination board-commission of mathematics 1959

Cambridge conference 1963 
Cambridge conference on teacher training 1966

National advisory committee in mathematics NACOME -a 1975

Individualize instruction; accountability
nt up
1975-prese
The new math movement coming to close; the cry for back to basis 
Richard Skemp's the up up the relational vs. instrumental understanding
Trend toward higher standard its for tea thechers up and
Prospects in mathematics education (PRIME) up a-9 to 78

And and and community college emerging as a dominant institution

An agenda for action 1980

Focus on problem solving if home a home a








SP




